#########
CAPRunner
#########

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
JavaCard ByteCode Emulator
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Overview
========

CAPRunner is a javacard bytecode emulator that is able to execute CAP
files. It also comes with an handy ``runcap.py`` that bind them
together and allow you to send some APDUs to a CAP file (without the
need for a smartcard).

Example
=======

The following script can be ran by ``runcap.py``. It loads a CAP file,
install and instanciate an applet from the file, send two APDu and
check their Status Word::

  load: /path/to/helloworld.cap

  install: 0a a0 00 00 00 62 03 01 0c 01 01 00 00 00 : 00

  Select HelloWorld //aid/A000000062/03010C0101

  ==> 00 a4 04 00 0a a0 00 00 00 62 03 01 0c 01 01 7F
  <== 00 A4 04 00 0A A0 00 00 00 62 03 01 0C 01 01 90 00

  ==> 80 B8 00 00 0C 0A
  <== 80 B8 00 00 0C 90 00

The example is taken from the JavaCard kit wich can be found under ``samples/classic_applets/HelloWorld``.

Dependencies
============

In order to compile CAP files, you will need a working Java
Development Kit together with a JavaCard Development Kit.

This project also relies on the following other ones:

* pythoncard_ which provide the JavaCard OS functionnalities in
  Python.
* and (optionnaly) pythonplatform_ which provides a minimal set of
  functionnalities from the `globalplatform`_ World.

.. note:: You will only need ``pythonplatform`` if your applet relies
	  on some globalplatform functionnalities like secure messaging.

Installation
============

Your best chance for the moment is to clone the repository using
`Git`_ to a local directory::

    $ git clone https://github.com/benallard/caprunner.git

This will create a copy of the repository in a ``caprunner``
directory.

In order to get the dependencies right, I suggest you also clone their
repositories (the second one is optionnal)::

    $ git clone https://github.com/benallard/pythoncard.git
    $ git clone https://github.com/benallard/pythonplatform.git

Finally, the easiest way to get the dependencies resolved is to *copy*
(or *link* on UNIX) the following directories at the root of the
``caprunner`` directory:

* ``python``, ``pythoncard`` and ``pythoncardx`` from the pythoncard
  directory
* and (optionnaly) ``org`` from the pythonplatform directory.

Getting started
===============

As a final step, you will need to *compile* the export files used
during compilation of your applet into a JSON file. This step is
needed in order to not read every single export file at each startup.

This is done with the following command line::

    $ genref.py --dump dump.json /path/to/export_files

This will generate a file called ``dump.json`` containing the
necessary information from the export files. The path given as second
parameter is the directory containing the export files from your
JavaCard Development Kit (e.g. the ``api21_export_files`` directory
for a JavaCard 2.1.2).

CAPRunner will expect the generated json file to be called 
``<JavaCard version>.json``

Finally, you should be able to launch ``runcap.py``. By default, it
will emulate a JavaCard Classic 3.0.1, if you need another version,
just give it as parameter. For instance::

    $ ./runcap.py 2.1.2

Starting from here, ``runcap`` will wait for your orders. Please refer
to the `documentation`_ for the format of the order to send to
``runcap``.

Run the tests
=============

    python -m unittest discover test

Contribution
============

* If an issue is bugging you, the `issue tracker`_ is your best friend
  to begin with.
* If you want to help me improve this project, write some more docs or
  add functionnalities, the best for you is to make yourself an
  account on `Github`_, fork the `repository`_ and make a Pull
  request. Chances are big that I also accept patches per mail.

RTFM !
======

The `documentation`_ is autogenerated and gently published by
`ReadTheDocs`_ after every commit.

.. _`documentation`: http://caprunner.readthedocs.org
.. _`ReadTheDocs`: http://readthedocs.org/
.. _pythoncard: https://github.com/benallard/pythoncard
.. _pythonplatform: https://github.com/benallard/pythonplatform
.. _`Git`: https://git-scm.com/
.. _`globalplatform`: http://www.globalplatform.org/
.. _`issue tracker`: https://github.com/benallard/caprunner/issues
.. _Github: https://github.com
.. _`repository`: https://github.com/benallard/caprunner